When I was young, I had an internal struggle.
I was studying,
but I was just doing it for my mom.
Just like any typical kid,
I didn’t want to stand out or be different.
I walked ten minutes to school,
ten minutes to the Kingdom Hall,
lived right in my territory.
So I was like in a little bubble.
So it was common to just bump
into your classmates or people you know.
I didn’t know what their reaction would be.
Sometimes you imagine people laughing at you.
And I was afraid of endangering the friendship.
Because I was raised
in a religiously divided household,
I always knew I had a choice.
But at the same time,
I would feel bad if I didn’t defend my faith,
and my conscience would bother me.
So it was always a struggle
—like, I knew what the right thing to do was,
but I didn’t have the courage
to do the right thing.
I still clearly remember when I was 12,
just one day, out of the blue,
I picked up a magazine on my own
and read it from cover to cover for the first time.
And that left a deep impression.
It just touched my heart that day.
And then I thought, ‘Oh, there must be
other books that I’m missing out on.’
So I just started reading other publications.
The brothers’ and sisters’ experiences
really touched my heart.
I was always amazed
at the courage they had,
and I always wanted to imitate that.
My mom’s Bible teacher
started studying with me
and helped me to meditate more
on what I had learned.
She introduced the Insight book to me,
and that tool really helped me
to dig deeper as I was doing personal study.
After doing it little by little,
I realized that studying is enjoyable
—especially when you study just
for yourself
to deepen your faith in Jehovah—
and it gave me the courage that I needed.
At the beginning of every school year,
I would introduce myself
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
It was not easy.
I would always pray,
especially the night before that.
And then every year, it got easier and easier.
It took courage, but Jehovah helped me.
When classmates asked
what I did over the weekend,
I would always mention spiritual activities.
And they would tell me their problems,
and I would always try to think
of a Bible principle or an article
that could help them.
One time, the class was given the assignment
to pick a topic for a persuasive speech.
So I decided to use that opportunity
to give a witness, and I chose the topic
“Evolution Versus Creation.”
The more I defended my faith,
the more I realized
there was nothing to be afraid of.
After all, none of my classmates or teachers
ever had a bad reaction
like I imagined they would.
I was able to regular auxiliary pioneer
throughout high school.
That definitely served
as a protection and kept me busy.
And right after high school,
I was able to start regular pioneering.
One blessing
is being able to have a good conscience,
knowing I didn’t try to hide who I am just to fit in.
It wasn’t easy at first, but gradually I realized
that having a relationship with Jehovah
is something to be proud of.